tech-challenge-04/README.md, before:

# Tech Challenge 04 - Video Analysis Application

## Overview
This application analyzes videos to perform:
- **Activity Detection:** Uses a sliding window approach with a TensorFlow Hub (Movinet) model to predict activities.
- **Face & Emotion Detection:** Utilizes DeepFace and OpenCV to detect faces and analyze emotions in video frames.

## Modules
- **main.py:** Sets up file paths, output directories, and orchestrates the video processing pipeline.
- **video_analysis/video.py:** Provides classes for video capture and video writing.
- **video_analysis/activity_detector.py:** Implements activity detection by processing frames in batches and annotating them with prediction results.
- **video_analysis/face_detector.py:** Handles face detection and emotion analysis, drawing bounding boxes and labels.
- **video_analysis/logger.py:** Configures the logging for debugging and tracking.
- **video_analysis/util.py:** Contains helper functions such as writing text with a background for better readability.
- **video_analysis/kinetics_labels_600.txt:** Contains the activity labels used by the TensorFlow model.
- **pyproject.toml:** Manages project metadata and external dependencies.
- **.gitignore & .python-version:** Define files to ignore and the Python version to be used.

## Process
1. **Video Input & Capture:** Loads the video using OpenCV and processes it frame by frame.
2. **Activity Detection:** 
   - Frames are collected in a sliding window (50 frames).
   - Frames are resized, normalized, and fed to the TensorFlow model.
   - The top 3 predictions are extracted and annotated on the video.
3. **Face & Emotion Analysis:** 
   - Each frame is analyzed using DeepFace for face detection and emotion recognition.
   - Annotated with bounding boxes and labels based on the dominant emotion.
4. **Output:** 
   - Annotated videos are saved.
   - Detailed analysis outputs are generated in CSV, JSON, and JSONL formats.
   - Output folders are timestamped.

## Setup & Installation
1. Ensure Python 3.12 is installed (see `.python-version`).
2. Install dependencies from `pyproject.toml`, for example using:
   ```bash
   uv sync --python 3.12
   ```
3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   uv run main.py
   ```

## Notes
- The activity detection uses a sliding window of 50 frames.
- Logging is configured for detailed debug output during processing.
- The generated output includes annotated videos along with analysis files in multiple formats.

Commit message:

Add audio summarization functionality to extract and summarize audio from video files
- Introduced `AudioSummarization` class to handle audio extraction, transcription, and summarization.
- Implemented methods for extracting audio from video, transcribing audio using Google Speech Recognition, and summarizing the transcribed text using a transformer model.
- Updated logging configuration to use INFO level for better log management.

tech-challenge-04/README.md, after:

# Tech Challenge 04 - Video Analysis Application

## Description
This repository contains a video analysis application that performs activity detection and face/emotion recognition using TensorFlow and DeepFace. The application processes video files, annotates them with detected activities and emotions, and saves the results in various formats.

You must add the video "input_video.mp4" to the root directory of the project for the application to run successfully.

## Overview
This application analyzes videos to perform:
- **Activity Detection:** Uses a sliding window approach with a TensorFlow Hub (Movinet) model to predict activities.
- **Face & Emotion Detection:** Utilizes DeepFace and OpenCV to detect faces and analyze emotions in video frames.

## Modules
- **main.py:** Sets up file paths, output directories, and orchestrates the video processing pipeline.
- **video_analysis/video.py:** Provides classes for video capture and video writing.
- **video_analysis/activity_detector.py:** Implements activity detection by processing frames in batches and annotating them with prediction results.
- **video_analysis/face_detector.py:** Handles face detection and emotion analysis, drawing bounding boxes and labels.
- **video_analysis/logger.py:** Configures the logging for debugging and tracking.
- **video_analysis/util.py:** Contains helper functions such as writing text with a background for better readability.
- **video_analysis/kinetics_labels_600.txt:** Contains the activity labels used by the TensorFlow model.
- **pyproject.toml:** Manages project metadata and external dependencies.
- **.gitignore & .python-version:** Define files to ignore and the Python version to be used.

## Process
1. **Video Input & Capture:** Loads the video using OpenCV and processes it frame by frame.
2. **Activity Detection:** 
   - Frames are collected in a sliding window (50 frames).
   - Frames are resized, normalized, and fed to the TensorFlow model.
   - The top 3 predictions are extracted and annotated on the video.
3. **Face & Emotion Analysis:** 
   - Each frame is analyzed using DeepFace for face detection and emotion recognition.
   - Annotated with bounding boxes and labels based on the dominant emotion.
4. **Output:** 
   - Annotated videos are saved.
   - Detailed analysis outputs are generated in CSV, JSON, and JSONL formats.
   - Output folders are timestamped.

## Setup & Installation
1. Ensure Python 3.12 is installed (see `.python-version`).
2. Install dependencies from `pyproject.toml`, for example using:
   ```bash
   uv sync --python 3.12
   ```
3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   uv run main.py
   ```

## Notes
- The activity detection uses a sliding window of 50 frames.
- Logging is configured for detailed debug output during processing.
- The generated output includes annotated videos along with analysis files in multiple formats.
